#Configuring Quark Note Taker

Quark can be configured by simply editing a few Python source files.  Any
changes to config files will not take effect until Quark is restarted.


##General Configuration

The most basic configurations can be done by editing the `settings.py` file.
This simple Python file defines some properties (variables actually) of Quark who's values
can be changed by the user. Here is a list of all (currently) supported properties:

* `autosave_every`: 
    - type: integer
    - description: specifies the time interval between auto-saves in milliseconds (how long to
wait before the next auto-save)
    - default value: `300000` (300000 milliseconds = 5 minutes)
* `start_html_template_file`:
    - type: string
    - description: specifies which file to use as "head" for the Markdown
    - default value: `"html-template/htmlDoc_start.html"`
* `end_html_template_file`  
    - type: string
    - description: specifies which file to use as "tail" for the Markdown to HTML conversion
    - default value: `"html-template/htmlDoc_end.html"`
* `html_template_stylesheet`
	- type: string
	- description: specifies which file to use as the default [CSS](http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/)
stylesheet for the note preview
	- default value: `"html-template/stylesheet.css"`
* `pygments_style`
	- type: string
	- description: specifies the name of the style to be used Pygments for highlighting code blocks
	- default value: `"monokai"`
* `notes_dir`:
    - type: string
    - description: specifies the path to your Quark notes directory.
    - default value: `"~/QuarkNotes"` (where "~" is your home directory) to HTML conversion
* `theme_file`:
    - type: string
    - description: specifies the path to a CSS file
which is used to style the Quark user interface (not the note preview)
    - default value: `"themes/default.css"`
* `update_delay`
	- type: int
	- description: specifies the delay time to wait (in milliseconds) before updating the
live preview immediately after an edit
	- default value: `500` (500 milliseconds = 0.5 seconds)

You can change any of these properties as you like.  Just don't specify values that don't
make sense, such as:

* negative time values
* paths that don't exist

Otherwise, Quark's behaviour is **undifiend**.


##Quark Themes

The file `themes/default.css` is a CSS file which defines the look of the user
interface.  When quark starts up, the contents of the file are loaded and used to style
the Qt app.  You have two options if you want to change how Quark looks.  First, you
can just edit this file.  Or, second, you can create your own CSS file and change the
`theme_file` property in `settings.py` (see section above).

For instructions on how to write CSS for Qt, see the
[Qt documentation](http://qt-project.org/doc/qt-5/stylesheet.html) pages.


#Quark Note Preview/Export Template

The files `html-template/htmlDoc_start.html` and `html-template/htmlDoc_end.html`
contain some [HTML](http://www.w3.org/html/) that is used to convert a Markdown note
to HTML.  A complete HTML document is constructed from the different files as follows:

    contents of html-template/htmlDoc_start.html
                       + 
    HTML generated from a Markdown note
                       + 
    contents of html-template/htmlDoc_start.html

This document is used to generate the note previews as well as the exported HTML notes.
For the final HTML document to be valid, the flowing guidelines must be flowed:

* `html-template/htmlDoc_start.html` must have:
	* the opening `<html>` declaration, followed by
	* the `<head></head>` element of the HTML documentm followed by
	* the `<body>` opening tag
* `html-template/htmlDoc_end.html` must have:
	* the `</body>` closing tag, followed by
	* the `</html>` closing tag

For convenience, the `html-template/htmlDoc_start.html` file can have some formatting
parameters were Quark will automatically insert some content. Following are the currently
supported formatting parameters:

* `{stylesheet}`: will be replaced by the contents of the CSS file specified in the config
file as `html_template_stylesheet`, wrapped inside `<style></style>` tags
* `{pygments_stylesheet}`: will be replaced by the CSS code generated by Pygments for the
style specified in the config file as `pygments_style`

See the provided files as example.